docker/README.md, before:

# Node network simulation

The idea is to create many nodes with commands like `make node-0/up`, `make node-1/down` etc. Each will have the same configuration as `template/Dockerfile` by having a symlink. The containers would all be on the same network.

Then we can slow down the network between `nodes` with https://alexei-led.github.io/post/pumba_docker_netem/ and see what happens.

To deploy we'll have to `docker run io.casperlabs/client` and pass it the WASM files. Will need a shell script wrapper.


## Build docker images

Run `make docker-build-all` in the main project directory to prepare the images. It will rebuild anything where the source code changed since last time.


## Set up a network

We'll set up a bunch of nodes in docker with names such as `node-0`, `node-1` etc. Each will have a corresponding container running the Execution Engine. You can only have as many nodes as there are entries in the [bonds.txt](.casperlabs/genesis/bonds.txt) file because each node will use a different validator key.

`node-0` will be the bootstrap node that all subsequent nodes connect to, so create that first. You can run `make node-0` in this directory to establish its directory and see the values `docker-compose` will use, or just run `make node-0/up` to bring up the node in docker straight away. Check that everything is fine with `docker logs -f node-0`. When it's running, bring up more nodes.


## Deploy some WASM code

Assuming that you compiled the example WASM contracts as described [here](https://slack-files.com/TDVFB45LG-FFBGDQSBW-bad20239ec) you can deploy them by running the following:

```sh
$ ./client.sh node-0 deploy $PWD/../contract-examples/store-hello-name/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release\
>     --from 00000000000000000000 \
>     --gas-limit 100000000 --gas-price 1 \
>     --session /data/helloname.wasm \
>     --payment /data/helloname.wasm

Success!
$ ./client.sh node-0 propose
Response: Success! Block f876efed8d... created and added.
$
```


## Shut down the network

You can tear everything down by running `make clean`, or destroy individual nodes with `make node-1/down` for example.

Commit message:

CON-50: Generating validator keys during setup.

docker/README.md, after:

# Node network simulation

The idea is to create many nodes with commands like `make node-0/up`, `make node-1/down` etc. Each will have the same configuration as `template/Dockerfile` by having a symlink. The containers would all be on the same network.

Then we can slow down the network between `nodes` with https://alexei-led.github.io/post/pumba_docker_netem/ and see what happens.

To deploy we'll have to `docker run io.casperlabs/client` and pass it the WASM files. Will need a shell script wrapper.


## Build docker images

Run `make docker-build-all` in the main project directory to prepare the images. It will rebuild anything where the source code changed since last time.


## Set up a network

We'll set up a bunch of nodes in docker with names such as `node-0`, `node-1` etc. Each will have a corresponding container running the Execution Engine.

The setup process will establish validator keys and bonds in `.casperlabs/genesis` by running the node once up front. By default 10 files are created but you can generate more by setting the `CL_CASPER_NUM_VALIDATORS` variable.

`node-0` will be the bootstrap node that all subsequent nodes connect to, so create that first. You can run `make node-0` in this directory to establish its directory and see the values `docker-compose` will use, or just run `make node-0/up` to bring up the node in docker straight away. Check that everything is fine with `docker logs -f node-0`. When it's running, bring up more nodes.


## Deploy some WASM code

Assuming that you compiled the example WASM contracts as described [here](https://slack-files.com/TDVFB45LG-FFBGDQSBW-bad20239ec) you can deploy them by running the following:

```sh
$ ./client.sh node-0 deploy $PWD/../contract-examples/store-hello-name/target/wasm32-unknown-unknown/release\
>     --from 00000000000000000000 \
>     --gas-limit 100000000 --gas-price 1 \
>     --session /data/helloname.wasm \
>     --payment /data/helloname.wasm

Success!
$ ./client.sh node-0 propose
Response: Success! Block f876efed8d... created and added.
$
```


## Shut down the network

You can tear everything down by running `make clean`, or destroy individual nodes with `make node-1/down` for example.
