integration-testing/README.md, before:

# Installing the prerequisites

## Step 1. Install Docker

Follow the instructions on [this page](https://docs.docker.com/install/) for platform specific instalation steps

## Step 2. Python v3.6+

The integration tests run on **Python v3**, which is incompatible with Python v2. 
  
You can test the version of your default python installed on your machine:

```bash
$ python3 --version
``` 

If your version is lower than 3.6 you will need to install Python 3.

### macOS

macOS is shipped with Python 2.x, so we install Python 3.x from Homebrew:

```bash
$ brew update && brew install python
$ python3 --version
Python 3.7.0
```

### [Debian Linux](https://docs.python-guide.org/starting/install3/linux/)
### [Windows](https://docs.python-guide.org/starting/install3/win/#install3-windows)

## Step 3: [Install pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv#installation)

## Step 4: Dependencies


Once Python is installed you can run within `integration-testing` subdirectory
the following command:

```bash
$ pipenv sync
```


## Step 4: Create the rnode docker image

Tests use RNode Docker image. If environment variable `${DRONE_BUILD_NUMBER}` is
defined, then `coop.rchain/rnode:DRONE-${DRONE_BUILD_NUMBER}` image is used.
These are created on Drone CI in order to use have image per build. If the
variable is undefined, `coop.rchain/rnode:latest` is used.
 
When the tests are run against the current source code one should build the
docker image and publish it locally. For details see [the developer
information](https://github.com/rchain/rchain/blob/dev/DEVELOPER.md) 
 
# Running the tests

## Configuration
The file `pytest.ini` allows some configuration of the test execution. Information about all the available options 
can be found in [pytest.ini reference](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/reference.html#ini-options-ref)

## Execution

The tests are run using *pytest*. If you want to have a deep understanding of the whole framework you should check 
[pytest documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/contents.html#toc) 

The tests can be run using the bash script 

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh
```

In order to run only specific tests can specify the test subdir where you want
the discovery to start

Examples:
Run the tests for the complete connected network: 

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh test/test_complete_connected.py
```

You can see all the options available by running

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh --help
```

To stop after the first failing tests or after N failure you can use `-x` or
`--maxfail`:

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh -x
```

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh --maxfail=3
```

The test discovery starts in the directories specified in the command line. 
If no directory is provided all the tests are run.

If you want to see what tests will be run by a certain command use the parameter `--collect-only`

Examples
```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh --collect-only
```
```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh --collect-only  test/test_star_connected.py
```

The test can runs the [mypy](https://pypi.org/project/pytest-mypy/) static type checker on your source files as part of 
your Pytest test runs now. It is not enabled by default now. You can run the static type checker test by the command below.

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh --mypy
```

If you want to restrict your test run to only perform mypy checks and not any other tests by using the `-m` option.

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh --mypy -m mypy 
```

# Writing your own tests
## Pytest basics
Bellow is a basic introduction while [here](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) you can see the full pytest documentation.

### Tests
Pytest tests are python functions which take fixtures as parameters.

Example:
```python
def test_one_plus_one():
    assert 1+1==2, "1+1 should equal 2"
    
def test_with_resources(some_resource):
    #...use the fixture some_resource

```

A successful test is a test which doesn't throw any exception. The `assert` statement can be used or `pytest.fail` or
simply an exception can be thrown
 
Note that the second test depends on some_resource. The parameter name has to have a corresponding fixture defined either 
in the test file or in one of the `conftest.py` visible by the current test.

### Fixtures
The fixtures define the setup/teardown logic. They are coroutines that look like this:

```python
@fixture(scope="package")
def some_resource(other_resource):
    #allocate the resource r
    yield r
    #cleanup the resource r

```

The fixture can depend on other fixtures by listing them in the parameter list the same way as the test functions to.

Fixtures have a scope which can be either `function`, `module`, `package` or `session`. If not specified, the default 
scope is `function`.

Fixtures are setup/teardown when the test execution enters/leaves its scope. For example `session` fixture will be setup only once 
at the beginning of the test execution while a `function` scoped fixture will be setup/teardown once for each test function
that depends on it.

## Test writing

### Test organization
The tests are organized in a tree-like structure under the directory `test`. Some subdirectories contain a file named 
`conftest.py` which contains the definitions of the fixtures that are available in that subdirectory.

Fixtures defined in a test subdirectory describe how the test contexts are setup/teardown. The tree structure of 
the tests is organized by fixtures. 

For example under `complete_connected` one can find tests that run on a complete connected network.

#### System fixture
This fixture is a *session* fixture, which means that it's created only once per test session. It is defined in `test/conftes.py`
and contains the elements needed for most tests:

1. config - the command line parameters
2. docker - an instance of a docker client
3. validator_data - contains the path to a tmp bonds file and the corresponding keys from resources/pregenerated-validator-private-public-key-pairs.txt

When this fixture is destroyed it:
1. removes all the docker unused networks and volumes 
2. removes the validator_data file


#### Package fixtures
The logic for setting up rnode networks are defined in `rnode_testing/network.py` as context managers. These are 
used in`conftest.py` and wrapped in a `@pytest.fixture` in order to build a network with the given shape.

This way the setup/teardown logic reused in several places.

### Waiting for conditions
Because simple `sleep`s are unreliable *all* waiting for various conditions is done via calls to wait-for.

The wait utilities are defined in `rnode_testing/wait.py`.

There are also a predicates which can be used to define various conditions. One can write custom predicates
based on these examples. 

### File resources
The resources like contracts to be deployed, certificates etc. are stored in the `resources` directory. The code that 
needs access to these resources can access them using the utilities found in  `rnode_testing/resources.py`

### RNode interface
The file `rnode_testing/rnode.py` contains utilities for working with node.

### Mixing fixtures
The file `rnode_testing/fixture.py` contains tools for parameterizing tests with different fixtures.

```python
@parametrize.cartesian(x=[a, b, c], y=[q,w,e])
def test_network_convergence(x, y):
    #...
```  

Based on this test there will be 9 tests generated, each of them called with one of the elements of the cartesian product
of the two fixture sets.


A similar result can be achieved by creating the 9 tests separately:
```python
def test_network_convergence_a_q(a, q):
    #...
def test_network_convergence_a_w(a, w):
    #...
def test_network_convergence_a_e(a, e):
    #...
def test_network_convergence_b_q(b , q):
    #...
...
```

The difference between the two approaches is the fact that wih `@parametrize.cartesian`, if the fixtures are session, 
package or module scoped, they are setup at the same time. In the above example if a,b,c,q,w,e will all live at the same 
time and might make the tests slow or fail if they use a lot of resources. This is the reason why test_casper_propose_and_deploy 
is not using `@paremetrize.cartesian`.

The second approach is more verbose but you have a finer control over the lifetime of the fixtures and you can control 
the resource usage better.

Commit message:

Remove RChain references except Wiki and JIRA Issues

integration-testing/README.md, after:

# Installing the prerequisites

## Step 1. Install Docker

Follow the instructions on [this page](https://docs.docker.com/install/) for platform specific instalation steps

## Step 2. Python v3.6+

The integration tests run on **Python v3**, which is incompatible with Python v2. 
  
You can test the version of your default python installed on your machine:

```bash
$ python3 --version
``` 

If your version is lower than 3.6 you will need to install Python 3.

### macOS

macOS is shipped with Python 2.x, so we install Python 3.x from Homebrew:

```bash
$ brew update && brew install python
$ python3 --version
Python 3.7.0
```

### [Debian Linux](https://docs.python-guide.org/starting/install3/linux/)
### [Windows](https://docs.python-guide.org/starting/install3/win/#install3-windows)

## Step 3: [Install pipenv](https://github.com/pypa/pipenv#installation)

## Step 4: Dependencies


Once Python is installed you can run within `integration-testing` subdirectory
the following command:

```bash
$ pipenv sync
```


## Step 4: Create the casperlabsnode docker image

Tests use CasperLabs Node Docker image. If environment variable `${DRONE_BUILD_NUMBER}` is
defined, then `io.casperlabs/node:DRONE-${DRONE_BUILD_NUMBER}` image is used.
These are created on Drone CI in order to use have image per build. If the
variable is undefined, `io.casperlabs/node:latest` is used.
 
When the tests are run against the current source code one should build the
docker image and publish it locally. For details see [the developer
information](https://github.com/CasperLabs/CasperLabs/blob/dev/DEVELOPER.md) 
 
# Running the tests

## Configuration
The file `pytest.ini` allows some configuration of the test execution. Information about all the available options 
can be found in [pytest.ini reference](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/reference.html#ini-options-ref)

## Execution

The tests are run using *pytest*. If you want to have a deep understanding of the whole framework you should check 
[pytest documentation](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/contents.html#toc) 

The tests can be run using the bash script 

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh
```

In order to run only specific tests can specify the test subdir where you want
the discovery to start

Examples:
Run the tests for the complete connected network: 

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh test/test_complete_connected.py
```

You can see all the options available by running

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh --help
```

To stop after the first failing tests or after N failure you can use `-x` or
`--maxfail`:

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh -x
```

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh --maxfail=3
```

The test discovery starts in the directories specified in the command line. 
If no directory is provided all the tests are run.

If you want to see what tests will be run by a certain command use the parameter `--collect-only`

Examples
```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh --collect-only
```
```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh --collect-only  test/test_star_connected.py
```

The test can runs the [mypy](https://pypi.org/project/pytest-mypy/) static type checker on your source files as part of 
your Pytest test runs now. It is not enabled by default now. You can run the static type checker test by the command below.

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh --mypy
```

If you want to restrict your test run to only perform mypy checks and not any other tests by using the `-m` option.

```bash
$ ./run_tests.sh --mypy -m mypy 
```

# Writing your own tests
## Pytest basics
Bellow is a basic introduction while [here](https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) you can see the full pytest documentation.

### Tests
Pytest tests are python functions which take fixtures as parameters.

Example:
```python
def test_one_plus_one():
    assert 1+1==2, "1+1 should equal 2"
    
def test_with_resources(some_resource):
    #...use the fixture some_resource

```

A successful test is a test which doesn't throw any exception. The `assert` statement can be used or `pytest.fail` or
simply an exception can be thrown
 
Note that the second test depends on some_resource. The parameter name has to have a corresponding fixture defined either 
in the test file or in one of the `conftest.py` visible by the current test.

### Fixtures
The fixtures define the setup/teardown logic. They are coroutines that look like this:

```python
@fixture(scope="package")
def some_resource(other_resource):
    #allocate the resource r
    yield r
    #cleanup the resource r

```

The fixture can depend on other fixtures by listing them in the parameter list the same way as the test functions to.

Fixtures have a scope which can be either `function`, `module`, `package` or `session`. If not specified, the default 
scope is `function`.

Fixtures are setup/teardown when the test execution enters/leaves its scope. For example `session` fixture will be setup only once 
at the beginning of the test execution while a `function` scoped fixture will be setup/teardown once for each test function
that depends on it.

## Test writing

### Test organization
The tests are organized in a tree-like structure under the directory `test`. Some subdirectories contain a file named 
`conftest.py` which contains the definitions of the fixtures that are available in that subdirectory.

Fixtures defined in a test subdirectory describe how the test contexts are setup/teardown. The tree structure of 
the tests is organized by fixtures. 

For example under `complete_connected` one can find tests that run on a complete connected network.

#### System fixture
This fixture is a *session* fixture, which means that it's created only once per test session. It is defined in `test/conftes.py`
and contains the elements needed for most tests:

1. config - the command line parameters
2. docker - an instance of a docker client
3. validator_data - contains the path to a tmp bonds file and the corresponding keys from resources/pregenerated-validator-private-public-key-pairs.txt

When this fixture is destroyed it:
1. removes all the docker unused networks and volumes 
2. removes the validator_data file


#### Package fixtures
The logic for setting up casperlabsnode networks are defined in `casperlabsnode_testing/network.py` as context managers. These are 
used in`conftest.py` and wrapped in a `@pytest.fixture` in order to build a network with the given shape.

This way the setup/teardown logic reused in several places.

### Waiting for conditions
Because simple `sleep`s are unreliable *all* waiting for various conditions is done via calls to wait-for.

The wait utilities are defined in `casperlabsnode_testing/wait.py`.

There are also a predicates which can be used to define various conditions. One can write custom predicates
based on these examples. 

### File resources
The resources like contracts to be deployed, certificates etc. are stored in the `resources` directory. The code that 
needs access to these resources can access them using the utilities found in  `casperlabsnode_testing/resources.py`

### Casper Labs Node interface
The file `casperlabsnode_testing/casperlabsnode.py` contains utilities for working with node.

### Mixing fixtures
The file `casperlabsnode_testing/fixture.py` contains tools for parameterizing tests with different fixtures.

```python
@parametrize.cartesian(x=[a, b, c], y=[q,w,e])
def test_network_convergence(x, y):
    #...
```  

Based on this test there will be 9 tests generated, each of them called with one of the elements of the cartesian product
of the two fixture sets.


A similar result can be achieved by creating the 9 tests separately:
```python
def test_network_convergence_a_q(a, q):
    #...
def test_network_convergence_a_w(a, w):
    #...
def test_network_convergence_a_e(a, e):
    #...
def test_network_convergence_b_q(b , q):
    #...
...
```

The difference between the two approaches is the fact that wih `@parametrize.cartesian`, if the fixtures are session, 
package or module scoped, they are setup at the same time. In the above example if a,b,c,q,w,e will all live at the same 
time and might make the tests slow or fail if they use a lot of resources. This is the reason why test_casper_propose_and_deploy 
is not using `@paremetrize.cartesian`.

The second approach is more verbose but you have a finer control over the lifetime of the fixtures and you can control 
the resource usage better.
